Now we are soon going to get started
with writing our own React.js code
and working in our own React projects
and we are going to learn about
all of React's cool features.
Now for writing React code,
you will need a code editor
and any Web Development Editor
or IDE can be used.
Atom, Sublime text, Web Storm,
whatever you want.
My recommendation and the Editor
I will use in this course though,
is Visual Studio Code.
It's a free code editor,
and it's amazing.
So free and amazing is a pretty good combination.
And that's why I will use it.
You can download and install it
for all major operating systems
and therefore this is the editor I will use
throughout this course.
You can simply visit code.visualstudio.com.
Download the installer from there,
and then simply walk through that installer.
It's a standard installer, nothing special there.
Now, once you did install Visual Studio Code
you can open it.
And once you did open it,
it will look something like this.
Now the exact look can differ
but it should look something like this.
You can tweak the appearance
under View Appearance.
For example, I will remove the Status Bar
and you can then open files or folders.
Through this Open Folder button here
or this File, Open or Open Folder button in the File menu.
And you can simply open the React projects
you are going to work on throughout this course
with this editor.
So at this point we don't have a project yet.
Later once we do have projects,
simply open those project folders
with this editor,
and you'll then be able to work on your code.
Now regarding the settings and the styling
and the look of this editor
you can of course fine-tune it to your requirements.
I'm using a theme here
and you can change it under preferences, color theme
and I'm using the Dark+ theme here.
You can, of course also switch to other themes
but I like this Dark+ theme.
So if you wanna have that same look
you can use that same theme here.
Throughout this course
I will also be a bit zoomed in.
And of course, that is something
I'm just doing here for this course
so that you can view my code without issues.
I will also sometimes remove this Side Bar
which you can do with View Appearance Show Side Bar
or with the shortcut you see here.
Now, in addition,
the great thing about Visual Studio Code is
that you can install extensions
under View Extensions.
And here I got a bunch of extensions installed
but there aren't many important ones.
Most of these extensions have nothing to do with a React.
There are two extensions
I wanna mention though.
The first one is Prettier.
This is an extension which will help with code formatting
because in Visual Studio Code,
if you go to your keyboard shortcuts,
there is a Format Document shortcut,
which you can bind in case it's not bound for you yet,
which you can press once you got some code
and it will then format your code so that it looks nicer.
Simply remove redundant white space
and so on.
So this can help with keeping your code clean and readable.
And this shortcut can benefit from this extension
which helps with formatting.
So installing Prettier might be a good idea.
Once you did install it,
you might just wanna check out your settings
under Preferences Settings
and then search for format here
and make sure you set your Default Formatter to Prettier.
And then this Format Document shortcut
which I showed you
should use Prettier.
Now that's one extension.
The other extension,
which I use in some course modules,
is the Material Icon extension.
The Material Icon Theme extension.
You can download and enable this as well.
And I will be using it in some,
but not all course sections.
This extension will simply change the file icons,
the look of the file icons.
And therefore, of course, it's 100% optional
and you don't need it.
And that's all that is the setup I'm using in this course.
This is the editor I'm using in this course.
And of course you can and should tweak it exactly
how you want it.
I just wanted to introduce you to my set up.